```
var nameSorted from e in employees
			orderby e.lastName, e.firstName
			select e
			if(nameSorted.Any()) //Extension method
				Console.WriteLine(nameSorted.First()) //Extension method

```
**NOTE:** Extension method Distict() or Count()

Lambda expression
A lambda expression is an **anonymous** function and is mostly uised to create delegates.

**Benefits**
	Typing when reading the code you dont have to look else where for the method distinction.
Lambda expression should be short.

Define a lambda expression
```
Parameters => Executed code
```

**EX**
```
n => n % 2 == 1 //Function definition
```
```
List<int> numbers = new List<int>{11, 37, 52};
List<int> oddNumbers = numbers.where(n => n % 2 == 1).toList();
```

Example with delegates
```
delegate int del (int x, int y);

static void Main(){
	del d1 = (x,y) => x * y;

	del d2 = (x,y) => {return x*y;}
	or
	del d2 = (int x, int y) => {return x*y;}

	int z1 = d1(2, 3);
	int z2 = d2(3, 4);
}
```
**Chapter 22** Databases and LINQ
	* SQL				(No)
	* LINQ to SQL		(No)  Microsoft
	* LINQ to Entities	(Yes) Microsoft

	LINQ to Entities is one of Microsofts ORM products
	ORM is a programming technique that contains a set of classes that **map**: the relational database entities to objects in a specific programming language

**Benefits of ORM**
	* The applications only need to deal the classes, instead of the physical database.
	* No need:
		- How to connect to the database
		- Construct SQL statements
		- How to use proper locking mechanism to ensure concurrency.
		- Handle distributed transactions

Use Visual Studios IDE to convert a database to an Entity Data Model.
	The first class represents a **row** of the table and contains properties for each column in the table 2 classes, **Author** and **Title**

The second clas represents the table itself. An Object of this class stores a collection of row objects that correspond to all of the rows in the table.

**Class Author**
Properties
	authorID
	lastName
	firstName
Navigator properties
	Titles
**Class Title**
Properties
	ISBN
	title1
	editorNumber
	copyRight
Navigator properties
	Author

**DbContext class**
NameSpace System.Data.Entity
- A DbContext class manages the data flow between the program and database.

DbContext SaveChanges method saves data back to the database.

LINQ to Entity has many extension method to process the data base.


